I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan Friars Renewal and this is the rosary in Friars Renewal and this is the rosary in Friars Renewal and this is the rosary in a year podcast where through prayer and a year podcast where through prayer and a year podcast where through prayer and meditation the rosary brings us deeper meditation the rosary brings us deeper meditation the rosary brings us deeper into relationship with Jesus and to Mary into relationship with Jesus and to Mary into relationship with Jesus and to Mary it becomes a source of grace for the it becomes a source of grace for the it becomes a source of grace for the whole world. The rosary in a year is whole world. The rosary in a year is whole world. The rosary in a year is brought to you by Ascension. This is day brought to you by Ascension. This is day brought to you by Ascension. This is day 149. To download the prayer plan for 149. To download the prayer plan for 149. To download the prayer plan for rosary in a year, visit rosary in a year, visit rosary in a year, visit essentiress.com/rosary in a year or text essentiress.com/rosary in a year or text essentiress.com/rosary in a year or text riy to riy to riy to 333777. You'll get an outline of how 333777. You'll get an outline of how 333777. You'll get an outline of how we're going to pray each month and it's we're going to pray each month and it's we're going to pray each month and it's a great way to track your progress. The a great way to track your progress. The a great way to track your progress. The best place to listen to the podcast in best place to listen to the podcast in best place to listen to the podcast in the Ascension app. There are special the Ascension app. There are special the Ascension app. There are special features built just for this podcast and features built just for this podcast and features built just for this podcast and also recordings of the full rosary with also recordings of the full rosary with also recordings of the full rosary with myself and other friars. On behalf of myself and other friars. On behalf of myself and other friars. On behalf of myself and the whole team here at myself and the whole team here at myself and the whole team here at Ascension, we wanted to take this Ascension, we wanted to take this Ascension, we wanted to take this opportunity to thank everyone who's opportunity to thank everyone who's opportunity to thank everyone who's helped support this podcast financially. helped support this podcast financially. helped support this podcast financially. Your generosity is so appreciated and Your generosity is so appreciated and Your generosity is so appreciated and helps us to reach as many people as helps us to reach as many people as helps us to reach as many people as possible. And if you haven't already, possible. And if you haven't already, possible. And if you haven't already, please consider supporting us at ascensionpress.com/support. Today we ascensionpress.com/support. Today we ascensionpress.com/support. Today we will be meditating upon and praying with will be meditating upon and praying with will be meditating upon and praying with the first joyful mystery, the the first joyful mystery, the the first joyful mystery, the Annunciation with help from a painting Annunciation with help from a painting Annunciation with help from a painting entitled the Annunciation by the artist entitled the Annunciation by the artist entitled the Annunciation by the artist Henry Asawa Henry Asawa Henry Asawa Tanner. And before getting into our Tanner. And before getting into our Tanner. And before getting into our reflection, a brief introduction to our reflection, a brief introduction to our reflection, a brief introduction to our artist and artwork. The artist, his name artist and artwork. The artist, his name artist and artwork. The artist, his name again is Henry Oswell Tanner. Born in again is Henry Oswell Tanner. Born in again is Henry Oswell Tanner. Born in the year the year the year 1859, died in the year 1859, died in the year 1859, died in the year 1937. And he was an American painter 1937. And he was an American painter 1937. And he was an American painter from Pittsburgh who spent most of his from Pittsburgh who spent most of his from Pittsburgh who spent most of his career in Philadelphia and Paris. He was career in Philadelphia and Paris. He was career in Philadelphia and Paris. He was one of the first African-American one of the first African-American one of the first African-American painters to be recognized painters to be recognized painters to be recognized internationally. internationally. internationally. This painting that we'll be looking at This painting that we'll be looking at This painting that we'll be looking at the annunciation was done in the year the annunciation was done in the year the annunciation was done in the year 1898 and its style it is an oil on 1898 and its style it is an oil on 1898 and its style it is an oil on canvas and the style is canvas and the style is canvas and the style is realism. And now a visual description. Mary sits on an unmade bed description. Mary sits on an unmade bed description. Mary sits on an unmade bed covered in draped linens. covered in draped linens. covered in draped linens. She's in a simple stone room decorated She's in a simple stone room decorated She's in a simple stone room decorated with striped textiles and folded in a with striped textiles and folded in a with striped textiles and folded in a red red red tapestry with a blue wrinkled tapestry with a blue wrinkled tapestry with a blue wrinkled carpet. She leans off the bed in carpet. She leans off the bed in carpet. She leans off the bed in bewildered fixation as her brown eyes bewildered fixation as her brown eyes bewildered fixation as her brown eyes look up towards a pillar of light look up towards a pillar of light look up towards a pillar of light emerging on the far left side of her bed emerging on the far left side of her bed emerging on the far left side of her bed chamber. The moment is held in suspense chamber. The moment is held in suspense chamber. The moment is held in suspense as the luminous presence illuminates the as the luminous presence illuminates the as the luminous presence illuminates the enclosed room, casting shadows among the enclosed room, casting shadows among the enclosed room, casting shadows among the linens and behind our lady in her linens and behind our lady in her linens and behind our lady in her flaxcoled striped robe. Her hair is flaxcoled striped robe. Her hair is flaxcoled striped robe. Her hair is uncovered. A blue cloak hangs off a lona bench. Now, I bench. Now, I bench. Now, I hesitate to say this, but in all hesitate to say this, but in all hesitate to say this, but in all honesty, I find this painting to be honesty, I find this painting to be honesty, I find this painting to be heartbreaking. That's kind of my heartbreaking. That's kind of my heartbreaking. That's kind of my interior response, but like in a good interior response, but like in a good interior response, but like in a good way. And so, let me explain. way. And so, let me explain. way. And so, let me explain. In our first painting of the enunciation In our first painting of the enunciation In our first painting of the enunciation that we looked at by Fra that we looked at by Fra that we looked at by Fra Angelico, we saw the angel appeared as a Angelico, we saw the angel appeared as a Angelico, we saw the angel appeared as a royal messenger royal messenger royal messenger as bowing before his queen and before as bowing before his queen and before as bowing before his queen and before God, the one who sent him. And we saw God, the one who sent him. And we saw God, the one who sent him. And we saw Mary really depicted as a queen. And Mary really depicted as a queen. And Mary really depicted as a queen. And she's a queen receiving the message of she's a queen receiving the message of she's a queen receiving the message of the angel the angel the angel herself responding by reverencing her herself responding by reverencing her herself responding by reverencing her head to the mystery of God and to her head to the mystery of God and to her head to the mystery of God and to her messenger. What I would say is that that messenger. What I would say is that that messenger. What I would say is that that painting of the annunciation by painting of the annunciation by painting of the annunciation by Franelco, it communicated the truth. It Franelco, it communicated the truth. It Franelco, it communicated the truth. It communicated the theological reality communicated the theological reality communicated the theological reality that Mary is a humble queen. But I'll that Mary is a humble queen. But I'll that Mary is a humble queen. But I'll say it with some emphasis on her being say it with some emphasis on her being say it with some emphasis on her being in fact a in fact a in fact a queen. In Tanner's rendition of the queen. In Tanner's rendition of the queen. In Tanner's rendition of the enunciation that we're praying with enunciation that we're praying with enunciation that we're praying with today, we see a complimentary but maybe today, we see a complimentary but maybe today, we see a complimentary but maybe somewhat like opposite somewhat like opposite somewhat like opposite approach. The angel Gabriel is depicted approach. The angel Gabriel is depicted approach. The angel Gabriel is depicted as like a star, as a luminous, as like a star, as a luminous, as like a star, as a luminous, mysterious heavenly figure. And we got mysterious heavenly figure. And we got mysterious heavenly figure. And we got to remember right like angels are to remember right like angels are to remember right like angels are non-corporeal beings meaning they don't non-corporeal beings meaning they don't non-corporeal beings meaning they don't have a have a have a body. So this angel Gabriel the angel of body. So this angel Gabriel the angel of body. So this angel Gabriel the angel of this brightest light reminds us of the this brightest light reminds us of the this brightest light reminds us of the otherness of the angel that he is in otherness of the angel that he is in otherness of the angel that he is in fact already a heavenly being. But how stark is this But how stark is this But how stark is this contrast in Tanner's depiction here of contrast in Tanner's depiction here of contrast in Tanner's depiction here of Mary? And I believe like what Tanner's Mary? And I believe like what Tanner's Mary? And I believe like what Tanner's doing, what he does is he beautifully doing, what he does is he beautifully doing, what he does is he beautifully depicts the humanity of depicts the humanity of depicts the humanity of Mary and as I look at her face and I Mary and as I look at her face and I Mary and as I look at her face and I just look at her disposition, my heart just look at her disposition, my heart just look at her disposition, my heart it breaks. it wrenches as these words it breaks. it wrenches as these words it breaks. it wrenches as these words almost spontaneously come to my lips and almost spontaneously come to my lips and almost spontaneously come to my lips and and leave kind of as like a whisper and leave kind of as like a whisper and leave kind of as like a whisper like she's just so like she's just so like she's just so little. Like look at little. Like look at little. Like look at her. She's just so little and she's so her. She's just so little and she's so her. She's just so little and she's so young and she's so vulnerable. young and she's so vulnerable. young and she's so vulnerable. And as the gospel tells us, Mary is And as the gospel tells us, Mary is And as the gospel tells us, Mary is troubled at the announcement of the troubled at the announcement of the troubled at the announcement of the angel, this heavenly luminous being angel, this heavenly luminous being angel, this heavenly luminous being coming to her so expectedly and so coming to her so expectedly and so coming to her so expectedly and so intimately and with a mission and intimately and with a mission and intimately and with a mission and announcement of the highest gravity. And announcement of the highest gravity. And announcement of the highest gravity. And so we get why she's so we get why she's so we get why she's troubled and humanly speaking like she's troubled and humanly speaking like she's troubled and humanly speaking like she's so so so vulnerable here. She is so young, so vulnerable here. She is so young, so vulnerable here. She is so young, so little, so innocent. And again, naturally speaking, like so And again, naturally speaking, like so And again, naturally speaking, like so unequipped for this unequipped for this unequipped for this moment, this young little moment, this young little moment, this young little girl, she's betrothed, but like girl, she's betrothed, but like girl, she's betrothed, but like unwed. And notice her right shoulder, unwed. And notice her right shoulder, unwed. And notice her right shoulder, like how it's like how it's like how it's turned sort of towards the angel, but turned sort of towards the angel, but turned sort of towards the angel, but moving the rest of her body kind of away moving the rest of her body kind of away moving the rest of her body kind of away from the angel. It's a movement towards from the angel. It's a movement towards from the angel. It's a movement towards like what almost seems to be like a like what almost seems to be like a like what almost seems to be like a movement of like self-p protection or of movement of like self-p protection or of movement of like self-p protection or of hiding a certain degree of modesty, a hiding a certain degree of modesty, a hiding a certain degree of modesty, a movement of of humility and holy movement of of humility and holy movement of of humility and holy simplicity. Yet notice her eyes, right? simplicity. Yet notice her eyes, right? simplicity. Yet notice her eyes, right? Like her eyes remain on the Like her eyes remain on the Like her eyes remain on the angel. Her ears attentive, her angel. Her ears attentive, her angel. Her ears attentive, her heart receptive. Tomorrow we'll begin a little journey Tomorrow we'll begin a little journey Tomorrow we'll begin a little journey within the journey as we look at God's within the journey as we look at God's within the journey as we look at God's answer to her littleness and her answer to her littleness and her answer to her littleness and her vulnerability before her mission and vulnerability before her mission and vulnerability before her mission and before the world. But today, today we'll before the world. But today, today we'll before the world. But today, today we'll just sit with just sit with just sit with Mary as she's so little and so Mary as she's so little and so Mary as she's so little and so vulnerable but vulnerable but vulnerable but faithful, right? She's faithful, right? She's faithful, right? She's troubled yet troubled yet troubled yet trusting. And we see this all, right? trusting. And we see this all, right? trusting. And we see this all, right? and Mary's fiat. Yes, I am a lowly and Mary's fiat. Yes, I am a lowly and Mary's fiat. Yes, I am a lowly handmade of the Lord. Here I am a handmade of the Lord. Here I am a handmade of the Lord. Here I am a servant of the Lord, a servant of the Lord, a servant of the Lord, a lowly, but be it done unto me according lowly, but be it done unto me according lowly, but be it done unto me according to your word. I may be troubled. I may to your word. I may be troubled. I may to your word. I may be troubled. I may be little, but I am be little, but I am be little, but I am trusting. And I imagine a lot of us can trusting. And I imagine a lot of us can trusting. And I imagine a lot of us can resonate right with Mary's awareness of resonate right with Mary's awareness of resonate right with Mary's awareness of her her her littleness as we so often this is our littleness as we so often this is our littleness as we so often this is our experience before maybe our experience before maybe our experience before maybe our marriages just kind of before some of marriages just kind of before some of marriages just kind of before some of the behaviors we want to do or not do the behaviors we want to do or not do the behaviors we want to do or not do before our children before suffering before our children before suffering before our children before suffering before whatever it is that God's before whatever it is that God's before whatever it is that God's inviting us to do. We can just so often inviting us to do. We can just so often inviting us to do. We can just so often feel so feel so feel so little and maybe inadequate and kind of little and maybe inadequate and kind of little and maybe inadequate and kind of vulnerable and perhaps overwhelmed. Today, just allow God to overwhelmed. Today, just allow God to overwhelmed. Today, just allow God to see you in your see you in your see you in your littleness and to know that he sees littleness and to know that he sees littleness and to know that he sees you and allow Mary to look at you and allow Mary to look at you and allow Mary to look at you recognizing and remembering how it you recognizing and remembering how it you recognizing and remembering how it feels. But also like Mary, let's keep feels. But also like Mary, let's keep feels. But also like Mary, let's keep our eyes turned towards God, placing our our eyes turned towards God, placing our our eyes turned towards God, placing our trust not in ourselves, right? Yes, trust not in ourselves, right? Yes, trust not in ourselves, right? Yes, Lord, we are little, but Lord, how Lord, we are little, but Lord, how Lord, we are little, but Lord, how marvelous are the works that you have marvelous are the works that you have marvelous are the works that you have done through us little ones. And now with Mary, let us pray. In ones. And now with Mary, let us pray. In ones. And now with Mary, let us pray. In the name of the Father and of the Son the name of the Father and of the Son the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. be done, on earth as it is in heaven. be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and Give us this day our daily bread, and Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us, and lead those who trespass against us, and lead those who trespass against us, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us us not into temptation, but deliver us us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen. from evil. Amen. from evil. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, with thee. Blessed art thou among women, with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of for us sinners, now and at the hour of for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. our death. our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour pray for us sinners now and at the hour pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. of our death. of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us pray for us pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our sinners, now and at the hour of our sinners, now and at the hour of our death. death. death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the art thou among women, and blessed is the art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now mother of God, pray for us sinners, now mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen. and at the hour of our death. Amen. and at the hour of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, with thee. Blessed art thou among women, with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of for us sinners, now and at the hour of for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. our death. our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour pray for us sinners now and at the hour pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. of our death. of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. of our death. of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. of our death. of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among is with thee. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen. Glory be to the of our death. Amen. Glory be to the of our death. Amen. Glory be to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Father and to the Son and to the Holy Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit. As it was in the beginning, is Spirit. As it was in the beginning, is Spirit. As it was in the beginning, is now and ever shall be, world without now and ever shall be, world without now and ever shall be, world without end. Amen. In the name of the Father and end. Amen. In the name of the Father and end. Amen. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy of the Son and of the Holy of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Spirit. Amen. All right. Thanks so much for Amen. All right. Thanks so much for Amen. All right. Thanks so much for joining me and praying with me today. I joining me and praying with me today. I joining me and praying with me today. I look forward to continuing this journey look forward to continuing this journey look forward to continuing this journey with you again tomorrow. Poco Poco with you again tomorrow. Poco Poco with you again tomorrow. Poco Poco friends. God bless you. 
