Mr. Mr. Mr. Speaker, we have known for some time Speaker, we have known for some time Speaker, we have known for some time that the world is in flux. The familiar that the world is in flux. The familiar that the world is in flux. The familiar signposts are fading, but the contours signposts are fading, but the contours signposts are fading, but the contours of a new global system have yet to take of a new global system have yet to take of a new global system have yet to take shape. So, we are in a period of shape. So, we are in a period of shape. So, we are in a period of transition, uncertain, unsettled, and transition, uncertain, unsettled, and transition, uncertain, unsettled, and increasingly increasingly increasingly unstable. The recent liberation day unstable. The recent liberation day unstable. The recent liberation day tariff announcements by the US confirms tariff announcements by the US confirms tariff announcements by the US confirms this stark reality. The era of this stark reality. The era of this stark reality. The era of rules-based globalization and free trade rules-based globalization and free trade rules-based globalization and free trade is is is over. This marks a profound turning over. This marks a profound turning over. This marks a profound turning point. We are entering a new phase in point. We are entering a new phase in point. We are entering a new phase in global affairs, one that is more global affairs, one that is more global affairs, one that is more arbitrary, protectionist, and dangerous. For nearly 80 years since the dangerous. For nearly 80 years since the dangerous. For nearly 80 years since the end of World War II, America was the end of World War II, America was the end of World War II, America was the anchor for the free market economies of anchor for the free market economies of anchor for the free market economies of the world. It championed free trade and the world. It championed free trade and the world. It championed free trade and open markets and led efforts to build a open markets and led efforts to build a open markets and led efforts to build a multilateral trading multilateral trading multilateral trading system. This WTO system ushered in system. This WTO system ushered in system. This WTO system ushered in decades of global growth and stability. decades of global growth and stability. decades of global growth and stability. It allowed trade to flourish and lifted It allowed trade to flourish and lifted It allowed trade to flourish and lifted millions out of poverty. It benefited millions out of poverty. It benefited millions out of poverty. It benefited the world and contributed to America's the world and contributed to America's the world and contributed to America's own economic own economic own economic strength. And objectively, America strength. And objectively, America strength. And objectively, America continues to enjoy unrivaled economic continues to enjoy unrivaled economic continues to enjoy unrivaled economic heft. In fact, the US rebounded more heft. In fact, the US rebounded more heft. In fact, the US rebounded more quickly than other advanced economies quickly than other advanced economies quickly than other advanced economies from the COVID pandemic. It has surged from the COVID pandemic. It has surged from the COVID pandemic. It has surged ahead of all its major competitors in ahead of all its major competitors in ahead of all its major competitors in the advanced industrial the advanced industrial the advanced industrial world. But not all Americans feel this world. But not all Americans feel this world. But not all Americans feel this way about their economy. There are way about their economy. There are way about their economy. There are hollowedout towns in what was once hollowedout towns in what was once hollowedout towns in what was once America's thriving industrial belt. America's thriving industrial belt. America's thriving industrial belt. There are workers whose jobs have There are workers whose jobs have There are workers whose jobs have disappeared and whose incomes have disappeared and whose incomes have disappeared and whose incomes have stagnated. They believe that the stagnated. They believe that the stagnated. They believe that the American economy is fundamentally American economy is fundamentally American economy is fundamentally broken. broken. broken. Discontent was already visible in the Discontent was already visible in the Discontent was already visible in the 1990s when protesters disrupted the WTO 1990s when protesters disrupted the WTO 1990s when protesters disrupted the WTO meeting in Seattle. Frustrations meeting in Seattle. Frustrations meeting in Seattle. Frustrations deepened following the global financial deepened following the global financial deepened following the global financial crisis of 2008 and more recently after crisis of 2008 and more recently after crisis of 2008 and more recently after the COVID the COVID the COVID pandemic. To be clear, the global pandemic. To be clear, the global pandemic. To be clear, the global economic system is in need of reform. economic system is in need of reform. economic system is in need of reform. Singapore and many others have called Singapore and many others have called Singapore and many others have called for changes and we have been working for changes and we have been working for changes and we have been working with like-minded countries and partners with like-minded countries and partners with like-minded countries and partners at the WTO to reform its at the WTO to reform its at the WTO to reform its processes. A key concern in America is processes. A key concern in America is processes. A key concern in America is China. The sense that the US had given China. The sense that the US had given China. The sense that the US had given away too much in allowing China to join away too much in allowing China to join away too much in allowing China to join the WTO and that China competes on an the WTO and that China competes on an the WTO and that China competes on an unfair basis, for example, by heavily unfair basis, for example, by heavily unfair basis, for example, by heavily subsidizing its own companies, putting subsidizing its own companies, putting subsidizing its own companies, putting up non-tariff barriers and restricting up non-tariff barriers and restricting up non-tariff barriers and restricting market access to US firms. market access to US firms. market access to US firms. These concerns should be addressed These concerns should be addressed These concerns should be addressed within the WTO within the WTO within the WTO framework. In particular, the trade framework. In particular, the trade framework. In particular, the trade arrangements and concessions made in the arrangements and concessions made in the arrangements and concessions made in the past when China was only 5% of the past when China was only 5% of the past when China was only 5% of the world's world's world's economy should be updated when China now economy should be updated when China now economy should be updated when China now makes up 15% of the world's GDP. makes up 15% of the world's GDP. makes up 15% of the world's GDP. And if there are disagreements, they And if there are disagreements, they And if there are disagreements, they should be resolved through the WTO's should be resolved through the WTO's should be resolved through the WTO's dispute resolution settlement system, dispute resolution settlement system, dispute resolution settlement system, which has been paralyzed and urgently which has been paralyzed and urgently which has been paralyzed and urgently needs to be restored and reformed. But what the US is doing now reformed. But what the US is doing now reformed. But what the US is doing now is not is not is not reform. It is rejecting the very system reform. It is rejecting the very system reform. It is rejecting the very system it it it created. Uh the US has imposed a blanket created. Uh the US has imposed a blanket created. Uh the US has imposed a blanket 10% tariff on imports for nearly all 10% tariff on imports for nearly all 10% tariff on imports for nearly all countries. On top of that, it has countries. On top of that, it has countries. On top of that, it has layered on higher tariffs up to 50% for layered on higher tariffs up to 50% for layered on higher tariffs up to 50% for selected countries, especially those selected countries, especially those selected countries, especially those that run a trade supplies with the that run a trade supplies with the that run a trade supplies with the US. According to the administration, the US. According to the administration, the US. According to the administration, the sweeping tariffs are needed to fix sweeping tariffs are needed to fix sweeping tariffs are needed to fix America's trade America's trade America's trade imbalances. But there is nothing imbalances. But there is nothing imbalances. But there is nothing inherently wrong about running a trade inherently wrong about running a trade inherently wrong about running a trade deficit. It simply means that American deficit. It simply means that American deficit. It simply means that American consumers are buying more from the world consumers are buying more from the world consumers are buying more from the world than the world is buying from America. than the world is buying from America. than the world is buying from America. Moreover, the focus has been solely on Moreover, the focus has been solely on Moreover, the focus has been solely on the goods trade. That only gives a the goods trade. That only gives a the goods trade. That only gives a partial picture. In fact, the US runs a partial picture. In fact, the US runs a partial picture. In fact, the US runs a surplus with many of its trading surplus with many of its trading surplus with many of its trading partners in partners in partners in services, exporting software services, services, exporting software services, services, exporting software services, education, entertainment, financial and education, entertainment, financial and education, entertainment, financial and business services. But this fact has business services. But this fact has business services. But this fact has been completely ignored. In Singapore's case, we have an ignored. In Singapore's case, we have an ignored. In Singapore's case, we have an FDA with America. We impose zero tariffs FDA with America. We impose zero tariffs FDA with America. We impose zero tariffs on US imports and we actually run a on US imports and we actually run a on US imports and we actually run a trade deficit with the US, meaning we trade deficit with the US, meaning we trade deficit with the US, meaning we buy more from them than they do from buy more from them than they do from buy more from them than they do from us. If the tariffs were truly reciprocal us. If the tariffs were truly reciprocal us. If the tariffs were truly reciprocal and if they were meant to target only and if they were meant to target only and if they were meant to target only those with trade surpluses, then the those with trade surpluses, then the those with trade surpluses, then the tariff for Singapore should be tariff for Singapore should be tariff for Singapore should be zero. But still, we are being subjected zero. But still, we are being subjected zero. But still, we are being subjected to the 10% tariff. to the 10% tariff. to the 10% tariff. We are very disappointed by the US move, We are very disappointed by the US move, We are very disappointed by the US move, especially considering the deep and especially considering the deep and especially considering the deep and long-standing friendship between our two long-standing friendship between our two long-standing friendship between our two countries. These are not actions one countries. These are not actions one countries. These are not actions one does to a friend. Asia bears the brunt of the US friend. Asia bears the brunt of the US friend. Asia bears the brunt of the US tariff increase within the region. China tariff increase within the region. China tariff increase within the region. China is the hardest hit, facing a 34% tariff is the hardest hit, facing a 34% tariff is the hardest hit, facing a 34% tariff this round. And this is on top of the this round. And this is on top of the this round. And this is on top of the 20% tariff increase imposed over the 20% tariff increase imposed over the 20% tariff increase imposed over the last two months and the 20% from the last two months and the 20% from the last two months and the 20% from the first Trump administration. So taken first Trump administration. So taken first Trump administration. So taken together, the average US tariff on together, the average US tariff on together, the average US tariff on Chinese products now exceeds Chinese products now exceeds Chinese products now exceeds 60%. In Southeast Asia, the tariff rates 60%. In Southeast Asia, the tariff rates 60%. In Southeast Asia, the tariff rates range from 10% to range from 10% to range from 10% to 49%. These measures will accelerate the 49%. These measures will accelerate the 49%. These measures will accelerate the fracturing of the global economy. fracturing of the global economy. fracturing of the global economy. Instead of flowing based on economic Instead of flowing based on economic Instead of flowing based on economic efficiency, capital and trade will efficiency, capital and trade will efficiency, capital and trade will increasingly be diverted based on increasingly be diverted based on increasingly be diverted based on political alignment and strategic considerations. Several members have considerations. Several members have considerations. Several members have asked about the impact of the tariffs on asked about the impact of the tariffs on asked about the impact of the tariffs on specific industries in Singapore. We are specific industries in Singapore. We are specific industries in Singapore. We are assessing the situation carefully, but assessing the situation carefully, but assessing the situation carefully, but our deeper worry is not the direct our deeper worry is not the direct our deeper worry is not the direct impact that these businesses face. It is impact that these businesses face. It is impact that these businesses face. It is the wider implications for the global the wider implications for the global the wider implications for the global trading system and the world economy. So trading system and the world economy. So trading system and the world economy. So let me let me let me explain. First, the reciprocal tariffs explain. First, the reciprocal tariffs explain. First, the reciprocal tariffs are a fundamental rejection of the WTO are a fundamental rejection of the WTO are a fundamental rejection of the WTO rules. One of the cornerstones of the rules. One of the cornerstones of the rules. One of the cornerstones of the WTO multilateral trading system is the WTO multilateral trading system is the WTO multilateral trading system is the most favored nation principle or most favored nation principle or most favored nation principle or MFN. Most favored nation sounds like MFN. Most favored nation sounds like MFN. Most favored nation sounds like giving special privileges. giving special privileges. giving special privileges. actually means the opposite that every actually means the opposite that every actually means the opposite that every member must treat all other members member must treat all other members member must treat all other members equally. In other words, if a country equally. In other words, if a country equally. In other words, if a country extends more favorable terms or imposes extends more favorable terms or imposes extends more favorable terms or imposes additional restrictions to one trading additional restrictions to one trading additional restrictions to one trading partner, it must do the same to all partner, it must do the same to all partner, it must do the same to all other WTO members. There are some other WTO members. There are some other WTO members. There are some carveouts and exceptions to the MFN carveouts and exceptions to the MFN carveouts and exceptions to the MFN rule, for example, to allow free trade rule, for example, to allow free trade rule, for example, to allow free trade agreements. But MFN has long been the agreements. But MFN has long been the agreements. But MFN has long been the bedrock of the multilateral trading bedrock of the multilateral trading bedrock of the multilateral trading system. It ensures a level playing system. It ensures a level playing system. It ensures a level playing field, prevents discrimination, and field, prevents discrimination, and field, prevents discrimination, and enables countries big or small to enables countries big or small to enables countries big or small to compete fairly in global markets. This compete fairly in global markets. This compete fairly in global markets. This has helped to liberalize trade amongst has helped to liberalize trade amongst has helped to liberalize trade amongst more than 100 WTO members, each with more than 100 WTO members, each with more than 100 WTO members, each with different economic and political and different economic and political and different economic and political and social social social concerns. concerns. concerns. America's new tariff regime is a America's new tariff regime is a America's new tariff regime is a complete repudiation of the MFN complete repudiation of the MFN complete repudiation of the MFN principle. It opens the door to principle. It opens the door to principle. It opens the door to selective country bycountry trade selective country bycountry trade selective country bycountry trade relations based on unilateral preferences. If other countries adopt preferences. If other countries adopt preferences. If other countries adopt the same approach as the US, the the same approach as the US, the the same approach as the US, the rules-based trading system will unravel. rules-based trading system will unravel. rules-based trading system will unravel. This will spell trouble for all nations, This will spell trouble for all nations, This will spell trouble for all nations, but smaller countries like Singapore but smaller countries like Singapore but smaller countries like Singapore will face greater pressures. will face greater pressures. will face greater pressures. because small countries have limited because small countries have limited because small countries have limited bargaining power in one-on-one bilateral bargaining power in one-on-one bilateral bargaining power in one-on-one bilateral negotiations. So the major powers will negotiations. So the major powers will negotiations. So the major powers will detect the terms and we risk being detect the terms and we risk being detect the terms and we risk being marginalized and sidelined. Second, the likelihood of a sidelined. Second, the likelihood of a sidelined. Second, the likelihood of a full-blown global trade war is full-blown global trade war is full-blown global trade war is growing. Singapore has decided not to growing. Singapore has decided not to growing. Singapore has decided not to impose retaliatory tariffs. Doing so impose retaliatory tariffs. Doing so impose retaliatory tariffs. Doing so will only lead to increased cost for will only lead to increased cost for will only lead to increased cost for Singaporeans. But other countries may Singaporeans. But other countries may Singaporeans. But other countries may not be guided by the same considerations not be guided by the same considerations not be guided by the same considerations and may have different perceptions and and may have different perceptions and and may have different perceptions and views. China has already imposed views. China has already imposed views. China has already imposed retaliatory tariffs on US goods. Others retaliatory tariffs on US goods. Others retaliatory tariffs on US goods. Others like the European Union are considering like the European Union are considering like the European Union are considering their next their next their next steps. Some think that the new tariffs steps. Some think that the new tariffs steps. Some think that the new tariffs are a negotiating tactic. a negotiating are a negotiating tactic. a negotiating are a negotiating tactic. a negotiating tool by the US to extract concessions in tool by the US to extract concessions in tool by the US to extract concessions in other other other areas. This was what President Richard areas. This was what President Richard areas. This was what President Richard Nixon did in 1971. He slapped a 10% Nixon did in 1971. He slapped a 10% Nixon did in 1971. He slapped a 10% search charge on imports to pressure search charge on imports to pressure search charge on imports to pressure Germany and Japan to devalue their Germany and Japan to devalue their Germany and Japan to devalue their currencies. And when they did, the currencies. And when they did, the currencies. And when they did, the tariffs came tariffs came tariffs came off. Indeed, there is a brief window for off. Indeed, there is a brief window for off. Indeed, there is a brief window for countries to negotiate and get some countries to negotiate and get some countries to negotiate and get some reprieve from the US before the higher reprieve from the US before the higher reprieve from the US before the higher terroristic effect. And it may be terroristic effect. And it may be terroristic effect. And it may be possible for some rates to be lowered, possible for some rates to be lowered, possible for some rates to be lowered, but we have to be realistic. Once trade but we have to be realistic. Once trade but we have to be realistic. Once trade barriers go up, they tend to stay up. barriers go up, they tend to stay up. barriers go up, they tend to stay up. Rolling them back is much harder, even Rolling them back is much harder, even Rolling them back is much harder, even after the original rationale no longer applies. Even if some partial applies. Even if some partial applies. Even if some partial accommodations are eventually worked accommodations are eventually worked accommodations are eventually worked out, the uncertainty generated by such a out, the uncertainty generated by such a out, the uncertainty generated by such a drastic move will dampen global drastic move will dampen global drastic move will dampen global confidence and growth. It will be very confidence and growth. It will be very confidence and growth. It will be very hard to restore the previous status hard to restore the previous status hard to restore the previous status quo. And in particular, it doesn't look quo. And in particular, it doesn't look quo. And in particular, it doesn't look like the 10% universal rate is open for like the 10% universal rate is open for like the 10% universal rate is open for negotiation. This seems to be the fixed negotiation. This seems to be the fixed negotiation. This seems to be the fixed minimum tariff regardless of a country's minimum tariff regardless of a country's minimum tariff regardless of a country's trade balance or existing trade trade balance or existing trade trade balance or existing trade arrangements. Uh furthermore, there are other forces Uh furthermore, there are other forces Uh furthermore, there are other forces that could maintain the momentum for that could maintain the momentum for that could maintain the momentum for tariffs. In particular, many European tariffs. In particular, many European tariffs. In particular, many European countries are eager to protect their countries are eager to protect their countries are eager to protect their critical industries like electric critical industries like electric critical industries like electric vehicles, green technologies, and vehicles, green technologies, and vehicles, green technologies, and semiconductors from Chinese semiconductors from Chinese semiconductors from Chinese competition. They do not want to be a competition. They do not want to be a competition. They do not want to be a dumping ground for exports from China or dumping ground for exports from China or dumping ground for exports from China or other countries. other countries. other countries. There is also a growing push across the There is also a growing push across the There is also a growing push across the west to strengthen their domestic west to strengthen their domestic west to strengthen their domestic manufacturing capabilities and to reduce manufacturing capabilities and to reduce manufacturing capabilities and to reduce dependence on global supply chains dependence on global supply chains dependence on global supply chains especially in strategic industries. So this round of tariff industries. So this round of tariff industries. So this round of tariff increases by the US may just be the increases by the US may just be the increases by the US may just be the beginning of more increases to come beginning of more increases to come beginning of more increases to come globally. And we've seen this play out globally. And we've seen this play out globally. And we've seen this play out before. before. before. The US enacted sweeping tariff increases The US enacted sweeping tariff increases The US enacted sweeping tariff increases through the Smooth Holly Act in 1930. through the Smooth Holly Act in 1930. through the Smooth Holly Act in 1930. Many countries protested and a number Many countries protested and a number Many countries protested and a number retaliated with their own trade retaliated with their own trade retaliated with their own trade restrictions and tariffs. This deepened restrictions and tariffs. This deepened restrictions and tariffs. This deepened and extended the Great and extended the Great and extended the Great Depression. In some ways, today's risk Depression. In some ways, today's risk Depression. In some ways, today's risk may be greater. The new US tariffs, if may be greater. The new US tariffs, if may be greater. The new US tariffs, if fully igned, are higher than the ones in fully igned, are higher than the ones in fully igned, are higher than the ones in Smooth Holly. Trade is now a much bigger Smooth Holly. Trade is now a much bigger Smooth Holly. Trade is now a much bigger part of the American and global economy part of the American and global economy part of the American and global economy compared to the compared to the compared to the 1930s. Supply chains are also more 1930s. Supply chains are also more 1930s. Supply chains are also more deeply connected than they were back deeply connected than they were back deeply connected than they were back then. Any disruption to trade flows will then. Any disruption to trade flows will then. Any disruption to trade flows will have wider knock-on effects on the have wider knock-on effects on the have wider knock-on effects on the world. And this brings me to the third world. And this brings me to the third world. And this brings me to the third point which is the impact on the global point which is the impact on the global point which is the impact on the global economy. Business and consumer confidence has Business and consumer confidence has Business and consumer confidence has already been hit by the tariffs. already been hit by the tariffs. already been hit by the tariffs. International trade and investments will International trade and investments will International trade and investments will suffer. Our economic agencies got in suffer. Our economic agencies got in suffer. Our economic agencies got in touch with several multinational touch with several multinational touch with several multinational enterprises and local businesses after enterprises and local businesses after enterprises and local businesses after the tariff the tariff the tariff announcement. Even those who were not announcement. Even those who were not announcement. Even those who were not directly affected by the tariffs are directly affected by the tariffs are directly affected by the tariffs are worried about weakening demand from worried about weakening demand from worried about weakening demand from their consumers. their consumers. their consumers. Some have put new projects on hold while Some have put new projects on hold while Some have put new projects on hold while they assess the full implications of the tariffs. These are reactions from tariffs. These are reactions from tariffs. These are reactions from companies based here, but I'm sure the companies based here, but I'm sure the companies based here, but I'm sure the same conversations are happening in same conversations are happening in same conversations are happening in boardrooms elsewhere. Over the recent days, we have seen sharp Over the recent days, we have seen sharp Over the recent days, we have seen sharp negative reactions in global stock negative reactions in global stock negative reactions in global stock markets. It is too early to tell if all markets. It is too early to tell if all markets. It is too early to tell if all this will spill over into the real this will spill over into the real this will spill over into the real economy, but the downside risks are economy, but the downside risks are economy, but the downside risks are clearly rising. clearly rising. clearly rising. What's troubling is not just the tariffs What's troubling is not just the tariffs What's troubling is not just the tariffs themselves, which are already damaging, themselves, which are already damaging, themselves, which are already damaging, but the fact that this new wave of but the fact that this new wave of but the fact that this new wave of protectionism is unpredictable and protectionism is unpredictable and protectionism is unpredictable and unstable. Protectionism is already bad, unstable. Protectionism is already bad, unstable. Protectionism is already bad, unstable protectionism is even unstable protectionism is even unstable protectionism is even worse. Businesses don't know what to worse. Businesses don't know what to worse. Businesses don't know what to expect. Many are holding back, fearful expect. Many are holding back, fearful expect. Many are holding back, fearful that changing rules will leave them with that changing rules will leave them with that changing rules will leave them with stranded assets. And all this creates an stranded assets. And all this creates an stranded assets. And all this creates an environment of deep uncertainty. one environment of deep uncertainty. one environment of deep uncertainty. one that could tip both the US and global that could tip both the US and global that could tip both the US and global economy into economy into economy into recession. The consequences extend far recession. The consequences extend far recession. The consequences extend far beyond economics. More and more beyond economics. More and more beyond economics. More and more countries are turning away from win-win countries are turning away from win-win countries are turning away from win-win cooperation and deeper cooperation and deeper cooperation and deeper integration. Instead, we see a rising me integration. Instead, we see a rising me integration. Instead, we see a rising me first, win-lose mindset where it's every first, win-lose mindset where it's every first, win-lose mindset where it's every country for itself. Some are even country for itself. Some are even country for itself. Some are even prepared to use aggressive or coercive prepared to use aggressive or coercive prepared to use aggressive or coercive means to get what they want at the means to get what they want at the means to get what they want at the expense of others. Meanwhile, global expense of others. Meanwhile, global expense of others. Meanwhile, global institutions are getting weaker and institutions are getting weaker and institutions are getting weaker and long-standing norms of cooperation are long-standing norms of cooperation are long-standing norms of cooperation are breaking down. One major concern is a USChina down. One major concern is a USChina down. One major concern is a USChina relationship. America views China as a relationship. America views China as a relationship. America views China as a com strategic competitor and threat com strategic competitor and threat com strategic competitor and threat which must be dealt with now while which must be dealt with now while which must be dealt with now while America still has the America still has the America still has the advantage. China says it is ready for a advantage. China says it is ready for a advantage. China says it is ready for a tariff war, a trade war or any other tariff war, a trade war or any other tariff war, a trade war or any other type of war. The US has now threatened type of war. The US has now threatened type of war. The US has now threatened an extra 50% tariff on China and China an extra 50% tariff on China and China an extra 50% tariff on China and China says it will fight to the end. says it will fight to the end. says it will fight to the end. There are fewer channels for dialogue There are fewer channels for dialogue There are fewer channels for dialogue which can serve as guard rails to manage which can serve as guard rails to manage which can serve as guard rails to manage the the the relationship. So if the disputes relationship. So if the disputes relationship. So if the disputes escalate and destabilize USChina escalate and destabilize USChina escalate and destabilize USChina relationship, the consequences for the relationship, the consequences for the relationship, the consequences for the world would be disastrous. We must be mentally disastrous. We must be mentally disastrous. We must be mentally prepared. The predictable and prepared. The predictable and prepared. The predictable and rules-based order we once knew is rules-based order we once knew is rules-based order we once knew is fading. The new era will be more fading. The new era will be more fading. The new era will be more volatile with more frequent and volatile with more frequent and volatile with more frequent and unpredictable shocks. We must be ready unpredictable shocks. We must be ready unpredictable shocks. We must be ready to stand firm and protect our interest to stand firm and protect our interest to stand firm and protect our interest no matter how the external winds may blow. What does all this mean for blow. What does all this mean for blow. What does all this mean for Singapore? In the near term, we expect Singapore? In the near term, we expect Singapore? In the near term, we expect weaker global growth, which means weaker global growth, which means weaker global growth, which means external demand for our goods and external demand for our goods and external demand for our goods and services will services will services will fall. The outward oriented sectors of fall. The outward oriented sectors of fall. The outward oriented sectors of our economy will suffer the brunt of the our economy will suffer the brunt of the our economy will suffer the brunt of the impact. They include manufacturing espec impact. They include manufacturing espec impact. They include manufacturing espec especially segments like electronics and especially segments like electronics and especially segments like electronics and semiconductors, biomedical science which semiconductors, biomedical science which semiconductors, biomedical science which have higher exo export exposure to the have higher exo export exposure to the have higher exo export exposure to the US, wholesale trade and US, wholesale trade and US, wholesale trade and transport will be impacted. The global transport will be impacted. The global transport will be impacted. The global uncertainty and dampened sentiments will uncertainty and dampened sentiments will uncertainty and dampened sentiments will also impact some services industries also impact some services industries also impact some services industries including finance and including finance and including finance and insurance. Singapore may or may not go insurance. Singapore may or may not go insurance. Singapore may or may not go into recession this year, but I have no into recession this year, but I have no into recession this year, but I have no doubt that our growth will be doubt that our growth will be doubt that our growth will be significantly significantly significantly impacted. We had originally projected impacted. We had originally projected impacted. We had originally projected GDP growth of 1 to 3% for GDP growth of 1 to 3% for GDP growth of 1 to 3% for 2025. MTI is reassessing the growth 2025. MTI is reassessing the growth 2025. MTI is reassessing the growth forecast and will likely revise it forecast and will likely revise it forecast and will likely revise it downwards. downwards. downwards. Slower growth will mean fewer job Slower growth will mean fewer job Slower growth will mean fewer job opportunities and smaller wage increases opportunities and smaller wage increases opportunities and smaller wage increases for workers. And if more companies face for workers. And if more companies face for workers. And if more companies face difficulties or relocate their difficulties or relocate their difficulties or relocate their operations back to the US, there will be operations back to the US, there will be operations back to the US, there will be higher retrenchments and job higher retrenchments and job higher retrenchments and job losses. For now, the measures announced losses. For now, the measures announced losses. For now, the measures announced in this year's budget will provide in this year's budget will provide in this year's budget will provide support for any short-term support for any short-term support for any short-term strain. We have a comprehensive package strain. We have a comprehensive package strain. We have a comprehensive package of measures for households and of measures for households and of measures for households and individuals. They will receive CDC individuals. They will receive CDC individuals. They will receive CDC vouchers, SG60 vouchers and Usave vouchers, SG60 vouchers and Usave vouchers, SG60 vouchers and Usave rebates to help with their cost of rebates to help with their cost of rebates to help with their cost of living. And there are targeted measures living. And there are targeted measures living. And there are targeted measures like increase comare assistance for the like increase comare assistance for the like increase comare assistance for the more vulnerable more vulnerable more vulnerable groups. We are also supporting workers groups. We are also supporting workers groups. We are also supporting workers through investments in skills future and through investments in skills future and through investments in skills future and those who find themselves involuntarily those who find themselves involuntarily those who find themselves involuntarily unemployed will receive help to get back unemployed will receive help to get back unemployed will receive help to get back on their feet through the skills future on their feet through the skills future on their feet through the skills future job seeker support which will start job seeker support which will start job seeker support which will start later this month. later this month. later this month. We have also rolled out measures in the We have also rolled out measures in the We have also rolled out measures in the budget to help businesses. There are budget to help businesses. There are budget to help businesses. There are short-term support measures through short-term support measures through short-term support measures through corporate income tax rebates as well as corporate income tax rebates as well as corporate income tax rebates as well as schemes to boost their productivity and schemes to boost their productivity and schemes to boost their productivity and competitiveness and to pivot to new competitiveness and to pivot to new competitiveness and to pivot to new markets. Our economic agencies are also markets. Our economic agencies are also markets. Our economic agencies are also engaging the firms impacted by the engaging the firms impacted by the engaging the firms impacted by the tariffs to better understand their tariffs to better understand their tariffs to better understand their responses and see how we can support responses and see how we can support responses and see how we can support them and assist them with any specific them and assist them with any specific them and assist them with any specific issues they face. issues they face. issues they face. Nevertheless, the situation is fluid and Nevertheless, the situation is fluid and Nevertheless, the situation is fluid and can change quickly. We will therefore can change quickly. We will therefore can change quickly. We will therefore set up a task force chaired by DPM set up a task force chaired by DPM set up a task force chaired by DPM Gimyong to help businesses and workers Gimyong to help businesses and workers Gimyong to help businesses and workers address the immediate uncertainties, address the immediate uncertainties, address the immediate uncertainties, strengthen their resilience, and better strengthen their resilience, and better strengthen their resilience, and better adapt to the new economic environment. adapt to the new economic environment. adapt to the new economic environment. In addition to our economic agencies, In addition to our economic agencies, In addition to our economic agencies, the task force will include the the task force will include the the task force will include the Singapore Business Federation, the Singapore Business Federation, the Singapore Business Federation, the Singapore National Employers Federation, Singapore National Employers Federation, Singapore National Employers Federation, and the NTU. We will continue to monitor NTU. We will continue to monitor NTU. We will continue to monitor developments closely. The government developments closely. The government developments closely. The government stands ready to do more if and when stands ready to do more if and when stands ready to do more if and when necessary. We have the resources to do necessary. We have the resources to do necessary. We have the resources to do so because of the financial discipline so because of the financial discipline so because of the financial discipline and prudence we've exercised over the and prudence we've exercised over the and prudence we've exercised over the decades. In this new environment, Singapore must In this new environment, Singapore must In this new environment, Singapore must redouble our efforts to remain a key redouble our efforts to remain a key redouble our efforts to remain a key node in global flows and a trusted node in global flows and a trusted node in global flows and a trusted business hub. We will forge closer links business hub. We will forge closer links business hub. We will forge closer links with like-minded partners who share our with like-minded partners who share our with like-minded partners who share our commitment to open and free commitment to open and free commitment to open and free trade. The US have may have decided to trade. The US have may have decided to trade. The US have may have decided to turn protectionists, but the rest of the turn protectionists, but the rest of the turn protectionists, but the rest of the world does not have to follow the same world does not have to follow the same world does not have to follow the same path. We will identify other partners to path. We will identify other partners to path. We will identify other partners to join us and work around this to ensure join us and work around this to ensure join us and work around this to ensure resilience and maintain critical parts resilience and maintain critical parts resilience and maintain critical parts of the multilateral system while laying of the multilateral system while laying of the multilateral system while laying the foundations for a possible new and the foundations for a possible new and the foundations for a possible new and different global system that can be different global system that can be different global system that can be achievable later. And this is why I've achievable later. And this is why I've achievable later. And this is why I've made the effort to engage and visit my made the effort to engage and visit my made the effort to engage and visit my counterparts in different countries. I counterparts in different countries. I counterparts in different countries. I touched base with the UK Prime Minister touched base with the UK Prime Minister touched base with the UK Prime Minister K Starmmer yesterday and have a few more K Starmmer yesterday and have a few more K Starmmer yesterday and have a few more conversations lined up in the coming conversations lined up in the coming conversations lined up in the coming weeks. They are all keen to do more with weeks. They are all keen to do more with weeks. They are all keen to do more with Singapore and to expand our economic Singapore and to expand our economic Singapore and to expand our economic cooperation, including in new areas like cooperation, including in new areas like cooperation, including in new areas like the digital and green economies. In particular, we will economies. In particular, we will economies. In particular, we will strengthen our collaboration and strengthen our collaboration and strengthen our collaboration and integration within ASEAN. integration within ASEAN. integration within ASEAN. Last Friday, I spoke with Malaysian Last Friday, I spoke with Malaysian Last Friday, I spoke with Malaysian Prime Minister Anoir Prime Minister Anoir Prime Minister Anoir Ibrahim. Malaysia is also the ASEAN Ibrahim. Malaysia is also the ASEAN Ibrahim. Malaysia is also the ASEAN chair. This year, we agreed to chair. This year, we agreed to chair. This year, we agreed to accelerate ASEAN's integration efforts accelerate ASEAN's integration efforts accelerate ASEAN's integration efforts to make our region more attractive and to make our region more attractive and to make our region more attractive and competitive. A special ASEAN economic competitive. A special ASEAN economic competitive. A special ASEAN economic minister's meeting will be convened minister's meeting will be convened minister's meeting will be convened later this week. later this week. later this week. They will discuss further ways that They will discuss further ways that They will discuss further ways that ASEAN can work together to strengthen ASEAN can work together to strengthen ASEAN can work together to strengthen intraan trade and to send a strong intraan trade and to send a strong intraan trade and to send a strong signal of ASEAN's commitment to regional signal of ASEAN's commitment to regional signal of ASEAN's commitment to regional economic economic economic integration. As a group, ASEAN will also integration. As a group, ASEAN will also integration. As a group, ASEAN will also continue to strengthen our links with continue to strengthen our links with continue to strengthen our links with like-minded partners in areas of mutual interest. Mr. Speaker, we are entering a interest. Mr. Speaker, we are entering a interest. Mr. Speaker, we are entering a changed world. The only way Singapore changed world. The only way Singapore changed world. The only way Singapore can make it through the gathering storm can make it through the gathering storm can make it through the gathering storm is to stay united, pull our resources, is to stay united, pull our resources, is to stay united, pull our resources, our resilience, and our our resilience, and our our resilience, and our resolve. The government will do resolve. The government will do resolve. The government will do everything we can to steer Singapore everything we can to steer Singapore everything we can to steer Singapore through the choppy waters and make sure through the choppy waters and make sure through the choppy waters and make sure no one is left behind. We will keep our no one is left behind. We will keep our no one is left behind. We will keep our economy open, our society cohesive, and economy open, our society cohesive, and economy open, our society cohesive, and our institutions strong. We will create our institutions strong. We will create our institutions strong. We will create new value propositions for businesses new value propositions for businesses new value propositions for businesses and and and investors. We will act boldly and investors. We will act boldly and investors. We will act boldly and decisively when needed to ensure decisively when needed to ensure decisively when needed to ensure Singapore continues to Singapore continues to Singapore continues to succeed. Above all, we will put the succeed. Above all, we will put the succeed. Above all, we will put the interest of Singapore and Singaporeans interest of Singapore and Singaporeans interest of Singapore and Singaporeans at the center of everything we at the center of everything we at the center of everything we do. The road ahead will be harder. The do. The road ahead will be harder. The do. The road ahead will be harder. The dangers are real, but so too is our dangers are real, but so too is our dangers are real, but so too is our determination. determination. determination. In many ways, we are in a better In many ways, we are in a better In many ways, we are in a better position than we were 60 years ago when position than we were 60 years ago when position than we were 60 years ago when we became independent. we became independent. we became independent. 
